---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-010-02
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Blog 3</h1>

<h2>Overview</h2>
This week, I did lab 2, which had me create a contained using a Dockerfile and researched IoT Botnet attacks for a presentation. Lastly, I had to create a website from scratch using HTML and CSS for styling with 3 specific tags chosen by me. 

<h2>Lab 2</h2>
While not the hardest thing on the list this week, in Lab 2 I had to create a container that was identical to the one created in lab 1 but by using nothing but a Dockerfile to reconstruct it. I had to research how basic functions could be ran inside of it, and how to copy files from docker containers to apply to new containers. After I figured that out, it was just a simple task of finding out what I needed from the first lab to duplicate and put into the Dockerfile. 

<h2>Creating a Website</h2>
We were tasked with creating a mock website using HTML and styling it with CSS. It was a simple 4-page design with navigational buttons to other pages and basic functions. We had to choose 3 student specific elements and attributes to use. I ended up using thead, wbr, and noscript for my elements and preload, srcset, and wrap for my attributes. <thead> was simple enough to use, but I wasn't too familiar with the other two. wbr turned out to be a really easy tag to use and noscript wasn't exactly complicated either. Preload was the only attribute that gave me issues, not code wise, just knowledge wise. I was able to read up on what it was doing and understood it was preloading certain things on the website for the user to help overall performance. 

<h2>IoT Botnet Presentation</h2>
Last thing I did this week was research IoT botnet attacks for a group presentation. I personally was tasked with researching a case study to present. We ended up choosing a company called Dyn and a famous DDoS attack on them in 2016. After thourough research into the methods used and with a little more understanding of how DDoS attacks worked, the case study went very well and helped the presentation put the concept into a real world perspective. 

Thank you for reading!<br/>
Blake
