---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 0-SP21"
date:   2021-02-19
categories: jekyll update
---


<h1>Blog 0-SP21</h1>

<h2>Overview</h2>
This week, I had to troubleshoot audio equipment and compare/constrast my current GPU to more recent ones as my current GPU is in dire need of an upgrade.

<h2>Audio Problems</h2>
I run a studio out of my room. For the software, I use Pro Tools and have been trained by some experienced audio engineers. Everything has been going really well up until recently where I've noticed a buzz in recordings. When recording, in order to get low latency, you need to reduce the hardware (in this case, the audio interface) buffer size to 64-128 samples. If you don't, the recording will be slightly delayed to everything else. By doing this, you allocate less resources to the from your computer to process the audio incoming on the interface. This also causes problems, especially when the session is larger and/or using too many CPU intensive plug-ins. When you start to overload the session, you can start to hear crackling sounds. This can transfer to audio recordings. I was wondering where this was coming from, and how to solve it. At first, I thought it must be a wiring issue and maybe the XLR needed replacing. But after messing around with the buffer size, I realized Pro Tools wasn't getting enough resources from the CPU (it mainly uses this), and that's why I was hearing it. So the solution was to increase the buffer size enough that it wasn't delayed, but stopped the audio issues. Having one of the latest CPU's on the market, I'm not sure why it's having this problem and will have to continue to investigate possible issues. 

<h2>GPU Research</h2>
My GPU is old. I'm currently using a GeForce GTX 1060 with 6GB of onboard memory. When I first got this card about 3 years ago, it suited me fine, and it was a massive upgrade from my last card. However, I'm not seeing that it's lagging behind quite dramatically. I used to be able to run games on it and not have to lower the graphics that much, but now, if it's at medium I can't push 60 frames per second. This is a problem because my monitor is running at 200Hz and anything below 60, the screen tearing becomes extremely obvious. Originally, I was looking at the GTX 2060 Super, but I ran into another issue. The GPU market is notorious for scalping. Even more so since the qurantine, as no one has anything better to do but shop. The 2060 Super goes for $339 retail. Now? It's either out of stock, or being sold for over $800. Now, the 2060 Super isn't some weak card, it packs a punch. But to see the price <i>doubled</i> is ridiculous. It's simply not worth that much. Who would pay that much? The most recent GTX cards run retail for that much. But what's that? They're sold out too. And being scalped for, much, <i>much</i> higher. The same thing happened with RAM a couple of years ago, and it's just now recovering. Spec wise, the 2060 blows my 1060 out of the water. The average benchmark puts it 74% faster than the 1060. Games see an average of 61% higher frames per second. And because my CPU (Intel i7 @ 3.6GHz) is way better than my GPU, it's now being bottlenecked by the 1060. Amazing. One day, I hope to replace this GPU, but unti lthe market stablizes, I think it'll have to suffice. 

<h2>Conclusion</h2>
A little bit of a rant this time around, but I hope you found this blog fun to read. Audio issues and GPU prices are no joke. 


Thank you for reading!<br/>
Blake
